- This is an unofficial transcript from ["Setting Your Code Free" talk][4] by [Heather Meeker][1] at [All Things Open][2] 2015.

- This transcript is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution license (reuse allowed)][3].

- If you are interested in improving this transcript, please send in your pull requests.

# Setting Your Code Free

OK, well, we might as well sort of get started. So, and I think this is one of the only legal talks ________ conference. So thank you for being ________ and showing up here to talk about legal subjects and listen about it. Uh, by the way, feel free to break in with the questions any time you like. Don’t hesitate to interrupt. If you have a question about something, it’s possible that … likely that people sitting next to you do as well.

So, uh, thanks for coming to the _________ but I think, uh, might be interesting. Uh, I’m Heather Meeker. I’m a lawyer in private practice. I work at a law firm called O'Melveny and Myers, which is a big international law firm. And my specialty is open source software licensing, which I’ve been working in for longer than it’s been cool. So, uh, quite a few years now.

I wanted to talk today about how to do code releases. Uh, if you are operating in a private company, a lot of engineers come to their companies and say, “I really want to release this code, I want to contribute to this open source project.” And then, sometimes the internal lawyers at the company get confused and don’t know what to do. This is your guide to help them understand what you are doing, and what issues might come up, and to help you convince them that what you are going to do is good thing for the company. So I get started.

Question: Is there any distinction between, you said private … [inaudible]

I only say private because I’m making the assumption that the organization you work for has a mission to conserve its IP rights. If you work for an organization that has basically dedicated all of its IP rights to the public domain and there’s not going to be so much concerned about it.

Uh, but, as you will see basically, there’s tension between a company’s obligation to their owners to steward their assets and doing open source releases. So, we’re going to talk about how we tread the line between the two.

OK. So, as you probably know, companies go through a life cycle, and they start out, and they are using open source code that’s out there in the wild, and they think it’s really cool, and they have a bunch of questions about how to comply with licenses and I’m not going to talk about it at all. I spend a lot of time talking about that day today. But we are going to focus on what happens not when you take code in to the company but when you push it back out.

Uh, companies then go through a sort of an adolescent period. You young people probably don’t recognize Annette Funicello, you know. These were what teenagers looked like in the 50s. Uh, and so, in the adolescent period, you know, companies start making usually contributions to existing open source projects. And then, when you get down to be the wise old owl, uh, you are starting to become a leader in open source development, and making code releases, getting involved in foundations, and so forth. So, when you go up the ladder in terms of maturity of, uh, participation in open source, these are the questions that are going to be crossing your mind and your company’s lawyers’ minds.

So, why does your company care whether you push open source code out? There are obviously some IP issues. But, uh, there are some other issues as well that you might want to think about. First of all, uh, open source code often has even a very minimum of IP notices on it, copyright notices and so forth. But those are actually very important and in an open source development they are kind of service proxies for attribution and reputation. And so, the first question you might want to ask is “Am I advancing my company’s reputation? Am I advancing my own personal interest?” or both because that can be part of the discussion that you have with the company. The company may or may not want recognition for your activities in open source. Some companies say “Yeah, we want our name on that contribution. We want everybody to know we are participating”. And some companies say “We do not want our name on that contribution. We do not want any one to know we are participating”. And it really cuts both ways and depends on the preferences of your company. And, you know, usually when companies start to support their developers in open source contributions, it’s because you are contributing to something that helps the business of the company. May not be the main line of the business of the company. But it’s going to help the company establish its products as de-facto standards, or to put in place perhaps standards for computing that are going to make it easy for people to buy the company’s products.

The issue that the lawyers are going to be worried about is sometimes referred to intellectual property leakage. It’s kind of a fell image but it is a term that gets used pretty frequently. And what that means is the company wants to know what IP rights it’s licensing. So, if, for instance, someone at the company is releasing open source code without telling anyone at the company, that’s obviously a situation where the company will not know that it’s own IP rights has been licensed. But then there’s going to be, uh, also, uh, an effect on the patent position of the company. So, if I write some code, it’s got copyright in it. I released it under an open source license. Everybody gets to practice the copyright in the code, copy it, modify it, redistribute it, etc. There might be some conditions in the license. But basically, the copyright is free for people to use. Uh, you may know that a lot of open source licenses also have patent licenses wrapped in to them. And, the company is going to be primarily concerned that it understands what patents it’s licensing.

So, a threshold question is who owns the rights in the software that you are writing. And I think a lot of developers have a general notion about how this works. But I’m going to talk to you about exactly how it works. So, under copyright law in the United States and in fact in most common law countries, the company owns a copyright in what you write within the course of employment. If I’m employed as a developer, I write a piece of software, my company automatically owns the rights to that code. I’m a lawyer. If I wrote a program, my company would not own the rights to that code because that’s not in the course of my employment. It’s not what I was hired to do. But if you’re doing something in the course of employment, but then by operation of law with nothing else happening, it’s actually the company that owns that copyright. And that’s under something called work made for hire doctrine under copyright law. That’s what it’s called in the United States. There are rules about things that you prepare on your own time.

But the rules for that get fuzzier and fuzzier every year, every month, every second because we are all nomadic workers. We’re all working at home and at the company, uh, premises. We’re all working on company laptops at home, working on our own devices at the company, and so forth and so on. So, the way that people used to figure this out under the law is starting to blur very quickly and it’s now kind of complicated. But the rule is basically if you write something because it’s your job to do that, and particularly if someone at your company said we want you to write this thing, that belongs to your company. If you write something on your own, but you use company resources to do it in a substantial way, that also belongs to your company. And even if you write something on your own that has to do with a projected business of the company, that’s going to belong to the company. Who saw Silicon Valley and …? Yeah. So this was one of the issue, this was actually the issue that was at play in the employee invention assignment agreement that was analyzed that all my friends and I, you know, on Facebook and everything. Did you think it was right? You know, all that stuff. And so, the facts can be kind of complicated but they have to do with “were you acting as an employee when you wrote the code,?” and also “were you using company resources to write the code?”.

Then, patents of course to make it more complicated works completely differently. OK, so, if you invent an invention, that belongs to you. And only human beings can be the inventors of the inventions. The only way your company get those rights is you’ve signed an agreement with them and you have agreed to assign over your patent rights to the company. The fact is most of you who are, you know, knowledge workers have signed such an agreement so your companies could end up owning inventions that come out of the things that you create. So, that’s the baseline for who owns what.

So, you guys all know this. I talk to lawyers a lot. So this slide is probably obvious to all of you. But why do you set your code free? Well, most engineers really like to work on open source projects. They see the value in it, possibly before their managers or their lawyers do. And so, it’s an important thing in order to retain the top talent that the company be open source friendly and allow their engineers to participate in the open source development. Uh, also it can be very good thing for business to influence infrastructure and so forth. So I’m not going to spend much time on this slide ‘cause you guys already know this, right? I don’t have to make a case for you.

OK, what happens when you start contributing to a third party open source project when it’s already out there in the wild? OK, so, most companies who have addressed this issue have a process that they want employees to go through before making a contribution to an existing project. It usually goes something like this. And if your company has not done this, and you want to contribute to an open source project, knowing how the most sophisticated companies go about this can help you establish a process at your company so that there is a path forward for you and you’re not just getting road blocks.

So, first, how does the contribution further the interest of the company. I mentioned a few ways. But the basic thing is that most companies don’t want to be releasing open source software that is their main line of business. There are a few exceptions to that. But not very many. Usually when you’re releasing open source code and you’re working at a private business, you’re doing something that is enabling the company’s products but it isn’t the company’s product itself. Well, this is a little piece of the company’s product that’s going to help you build the whole product and add value. And what you charge for and make money on is the value [inaudible] not really the open source part.

Then, you get to the meat of the thing and you’re going to have to convince your company that it’s OK for you to do the contribution and still be respectful of the company’s intellectual property rights. So, first you ask this copyright that I’m going to, you know, give to a project, is it valuable for proprietary licensing?, and the answer is about 99% of the time “No, it’s not” because if it were, you wouldn’t be making that decision in the first place. What you are doing is you’re saying “if we give this away, it will actually get us more back”. And then comes the one that’s in orange there. This is the main question that the lawyers are going to want to know, “are you actively seeking patent protection on anything that’s embodied in that code that you wrote?” because once you contributed to an open source project, it’s not that the patent goes away, it’s just going to get a lot harder to enforce for variety of legal reasons. And so, you’re going probably have to convince your company that it doesn’t have any patents and it’s not seeking any patents that actually read on the code that you are contributing. And if you can convince them of that, you can make a good case so it is OK to do the contribution.

And finally, does the contribution have any trade secrets in it? Well, obviously, once you make it publicly available they are not trade secrets any more. So, that’s usually such an easy question. It really doesn’t have much time, uh, devoted to it. The main question is a patent question. Yes, you had a question.

Question: I’m just trying to understand [inaudible]

Yes. So the way patents work is, a patent, when you write a patent, you write a claim and the claim describes an invention. And for software, it’s usually going to be what they call them method claim. So it’s going to say a method of doing X and X can be almost anything. So, the question you are going to ask is the actual code that I’m contributing, not the whole project that you are contributing to, but the stuff that I’m going to contribute, does that on its own actually practice this method?, and the fact is that it’s usually either too small a bit, or too different from what your company is doing and its main line to be covered. The main thing is that — I tell my clients is — it’s OK to seek patent protection on stuff that you’re contributing to open source. It’s not wrong. It’s just a waist of resources because you should either be going down the open source path or you should be going down the patent path and this doesn’t make a lot of sense to do both at once. You are going to spend a lot of money on patent prosecution and that’s not going to net you much for return. And so it just doesn’t make sense.

Question: [inaudible]

Yeah. Some companies do.

Question: [inaudible]

Definitely protected from your patents.

Question: [inaudible]

Right. So, so, I’ll explain, just like restate, that a little in case it’s helpful, which is it’s fine to seek patent protection on something you are contributing. You can’t enforce that against people who are using under the open source license, or it’s very difficult to do. But you can still enforce it against someone else who might attack the open source project. So it can be used as a defensive mechanism. Uh, most of my clients don’t have a lot of money for patent prosecution as they are startups and so forth. So they are really balancing resources. So I’m usually saying, you know, spend your money elsewhere but it’s not that it doesn’t make sense at all. It can make the patents more difficult to enforce in some subtle ways, which I won’t go into here. So, what it means is you’re willing to spend some money on patent prosecution that might never net you a return. But it’s not irrational to do it. It’s just, uh, not what most people do.

Question: [inaudible]

Yes, so now, the America Invents Act is, on which I am not an expert by the way but, most of it has to do with process. The thing that sort of more interesting to developers is its change from a first to invent to a first inventor to file. So, in the United States, we are very different from other counties on patents. Most other counties say the first person to file is the owner of the invention. In the United States, we say the first inventor to file is the owner of the invention. It used to be just the first inventor, so even if someone else filed later, you could challenge that and say I invented it first. So, it’s changed a little bit but so far as kind of the fifty thousand foot view has not changed a lot. Most of what the act did was change some process so that it was a little easier to defend patent troll cases. And also little easier to challenge patents that you thought were it should be invalidated.

OK. If you’re doing a contribution, the next thing you are going to have to tell people from your company is what terms cover the contribution. So, open source projects, you may already know, they run in one of two ways. They either run with a contribution license or without one. So, most, uh, most projects that are under licenses like GPL, which are copyleft licenses, don’t use what they call a contribution agreement. Uh, most of them, like say the Linux Kernel project, they use something called, uh, Certificate of Authenticity… Is that what was called it? Yeah, Developer’s Certificate of Originality, which is only saying I wrote this stuff. Right? But it doesn’t actually convey any rights. The rights are actually conveyed under the open source license.

Whereas some projects have a two-step process, where they have the license that covers the project, which makes the rights available to the whole world, and they have another license that brings the rights into the project. So there’s an inbound license and an outbound license. So, Apache uses that. And, uh, most of open source project that are run by private corporations use it because they want the flexibility to change the outbound license if they want.

So, if you come to your company and say “I want to contribute this thing”, one question you are going to need to be able to answer is what license is governing the contribution because unless your company knows that they can’t make a rational decision about it. So, you need to look at the project, find out are they using a contribution agreement, are they not, or they’re just using the outbound license so that you can help the lawyers figure that one out. Now, you know, when my clients come to me and ask me that question, I’ll go figure it out. But, through the average in-house company lawyer who has been sort of tasked, at the last minute with open source stuff is going to need your help sorting this thing out. So, it’s good if you can figure it out on your own.

So, if you do a contribution, there are some things you should think about. Uh, first of all, it’s probably generally not a good idea to be contributing code that you didn’t write to a project. There are some situations in which you can do that, if you’re sure you have the right to do it. But it’s cleaner and easier for you to do a pull request with, uh, just code that you wrote. And, so, you should look at the code first and say “OK. Did I write this?, this big block of stuff, could they just get that from someone else instead of having me try to convey the rights through me?” Uh, so, if it’s feasible to do, you should only be contributing stuff that you wrote. 

Uh, you know, I was a coder once myself so I know that coders have a tendency to put some information, in say comments, that is not strictly necessary for technical reasons. And, so, if you have any information like that, you’ve got to make sure it’s like ready for the world. So, things like personal names, phone numbers, addresses, emails, uh, a name is fine if that’s a holder of a copyright or you want to provide attribution. But, you don’t want to be outing people, uh, with, uh, by doing the code release. So, you should call the code for that. Uh, eliminate inappropriate comments, which I often used to put in code when I was frustrated. Uh, you should remove code that isn’t actually used. A lot of code bases get, you know, a lot of junk in them, and, uh, a lot of times actually that junk, Jeff, you can say whether I’m right or wrong. It causes licensing problems because there’s this big code base and it’s got all the stuff that’s not actually built into the product. And then you start doing license review on it. And all of the stuff that’s not use … doesn’t have the right licenses. And then you spend all these cycles trying to figure it out, and you figure out at the end that’s not even used in the project. Don’t make that happen for the project that you are contributing to. And then, you want to put a copyright notice, probably for your company, ‘cause it owns the rights so that everybody knows who contributed the code.

Question: [inaudible]

Yes, some projects … Well, I think the better way to put it is they will not apply your copyright notice to their project. Uh, whether they will remove your copyright notice is another question. So, I know that this is an issue that’s come up for a lot of developers. It’s really a transparency issue for the project. So, you should ask the project what is your policy, although that’s a little formal, what is your practice about doing this because sometimes they want to put your copyright notice into the project. Whether they do or not probably depends on how much you’re contributing. If you contributing a couple of lines, they probably won’t put your copyright notice on it. And in any case, that’s probably not enough to earn copyright protection.

Question: [inaudible]

Well, a copyright notice today under a current copyright law doesn’t really mean a lot. So, it applies in the sense that you own the copyright if there is a copyright to be owned in what you are contributing. And the copyright notice doesn’t really change that. The copyright notice is intended to, uh, provide information to a user so they don’t accidentally infringe something that — because they think that it is not under copyright which — it’s not even really all that relevant anymore so today they really service proxies for attribution. Yeah.

Question: [inaudible]

I can’t hear you, sorry.

Question: [inaudible]

Oh. Yeah. Uh, well, OK, [inaudible]

Question: [inaudible]

They don’t want to encumber the code with a whole ton of notices. I get that and I think it’s reasonable. But if you’re contributing a lot, it’s reasonable to have an notice on it. But you are right. As the repositories have gotten more sophisticated, you know, a lot of that is meta information now, it’s not actually baked into the code. So, if you are a lawyer and you’re trying to figure out who owns something, it’s actually a lot more useful to look at the meta information than the actual code anymore. Uh, and so that really change things definitely. Yeah.

Question: [inaudible]

Well, I mean there’s not one answer but I give you a few things to think about. First of all, not everything is subject to copyright protection. And there’s this sort of meme floating around that if it’s less than ten lines it’s not subject to copyright protection, which is not a legal principle. It’s more like, you know, a common sense notion. Because in order to have copyright protection, something has to be expressive and it has to … It has to meet a, and admittedly, fairly low bar of creativity. So, if you are making a bug fix and you’re changing a zero to a one, that is not protectable by copyright. If you have a few lines, it’s probably also not protectable by copyright. But, the bar is really pretty low. So, anything, you know… So, there’s this rule of thumb, ten lines or more. You think about whether it’s copyright protected or not. Uh, and, uh, you know, I think that the question of whether notices get retained, it’s also a social question, right? So, you have, well, what I’ve heard is that a well run project asks if it’s going take a notice off. It’s different thing to actually pro-actively apply it. And they often won’t pro-actively apply them if you don’t put them on.

Question: [inaudible]

That would have to be one hell of a line of JavaScript. I mean, I don’t know JavaScript is as well as I know some of the things so like… I can see a line of Perl being a copyrightable work. But like, JavaScript, I don’t know. Ha ha. Depends on what you call a line, I guess. So, uh, one line of a code is unlikely to have any copyright protection and if you find one line of GPL code in your project, and you call me up and you say “Heather, I would like your legal opinion on whether I need to rewrite this line”, I will say “No, you do not need to rewrite them”, unless it’s a whole program on one line then might have a different opinion.

OK. When you do a code release as opposed to contributing to an existing project, now you have to decide what license to apply. And I get a lot of people coming to me say “What license should I put on the code?” And, uh, I don’t think that’s … It’s an interesting question but it’s not a question that’s going to get you to an answer. So, here is how you get to the answer. There are a lot of open source license, we all know. There are over sixty that are approved. There are many more that are not approved by OSI. But, you know, there are about six that anybody really uses, OK? And so, you can narrow down the choice pretty easily if you look at the motivations for what you are doing.

Now, you know, I’m leaving aside for the moment the notion that it’s a moral imperative to release things under GPL. For most companies, that’s not the case. For some people, that’s the case. This discussion is not the discussion for them because I’m going to just pick GPL. Uh, but you have to focus on your goals. And, so, I’d like to think about a couple of axis, axes. Uh, one is do you want copyleft or permissive, and the other is do you want a patent grant or not a patent grant.

So, you know, permissive as all you know is like BSD, MIT, Apache, they say here is a code, do what you want with it, put a notice on it, that’s it, no more requirements. Copyleft is the free software paradigm where you have to make source code available, re-license on the same terms, and so forth. So, those are two pretty different models. And what is going to serve your interest going to be different. It’s going to drive you toward one or the other. I would also comment that you can’t go from permissive to copyleft. You can go from copyleft to permissive. So, if you release some code under GPL, and you decide, “No, that’s just not the right license for my community. They need more flexibility”. Then you can go to LGPL, or one of the corporate copyleft licenses or a permissive license. But once you release under a permissive license, it makes no sense to go to a copyleft license ‘cause everyone can use it under the permissive license. So, if you make a mistake, you are on the side of the copyleft model before the permissive mode.

And then you ask yourself “do I need an express patent grant?” And the reason you may or may not want one is that if your company wants more clarity about what patent rights it’s going to be granting, it’s going to prefer the express grant. Now you might hear some lawyers saying, “Oh, if there’s no patent grant, there’s no patent grant at all”. And that’s pretty not really right. Uh, it’s actually a moderately complicated question. But I think the conventional wisdom at this point is if you’re trying to steward your patent rights and be careful about it, you want the express grant because you want to know what the contours are. So, if you go with this little model, you can see that you’re very quickly down to one or two choices. This makes it a lot easier. So, if you don’t want a patent grant and you want copyleft, you’ve got GPL or LGPL and you are going to choose one of those based on what you are writing. If you are writing a whole program, you choose GPL. If you write a part of a program, you choose LGPL. And, uh, if you, uh, if you want a patent grant, you want it to be permissive, there’s really only one license and it’s Apache 2. So, this quickly drives you towards one or two choices and makes … it makes hundreds into two. So that’s a lot easier.

Uh, BSD and MIT from sort of my point of view, there’s no difference between the two. Legally, they do exactly the same thing and so people choose one of the other. Maybe, if you are contributing to something that gets used with a lot of other code that’s under one license, you would choose that one perhaps just for consistency sake. But it is not necessary to do that. And then the copyleft choices are a little bit more complicated but, uh, it really just depends on what you are trying to, to do with your code.

Uh, unless you are trying to make a business like, uh, Oracle, uh, you know, getting people to get licenses to your code that is otherwise under GPL, you should not be choosing GPL for pieces of programs because what you are doing then is creating what I would call a license bug. You’re putting code out in the wild that you can’t use under the license if you want to use it in a proprietary product. Uh, of course if you want to try to force people to use GPL then you release stuff under GPL. But that is kind of an Uber decision, and that’s not what most companies want to do. What most companies want to do is choose a license that gets the code used as much as possible.

OK. So, we went through these questions.

Uh, here is the list checklist for, uh, releases. As oppose … All the stuff about contribution still applies. But here are some extra things to think about. When you choose a name for your release, you do not want to use company name or anything like it because that will cause you trademark management issues. Trademark and open source, the intersection of the two is very weird and interesting area. Weird and interesting is good for lawyers and probably not for anyone else. But, uh, but you don’t want to call, you know, if your company is called XYZ, you do not want to release open source code called OpenXYZ unless you have a very careful brand management strategy for that because that could make it difficult for you to enforce your trademark in XYZ. Uh, make sure before you do a code release unless you just want to orphan it on GitHub, which by the way some of my clients want to do for some reasons. Uh, make sure you actually have people and resources to steward the project so that it will really become a living project and have people participating in it.

Got to set up a repository. Today, that’s, you know, as easy as falling off log, it used to be little harder. You want to apply the license. And for the sake of the rest of the world, please apply a license and apply it in a clear way. Uh, you know, a lot of stuff, particularly on GitHub, there’s no license terms at all. What that means is you can’t use the code at all, unfortunately it’s probably the opposite of what people think it means. Uh, but, be clear about where the license is. Put it in a text in a LICENSE.TXT or COPYING.TXT or README.TXT, something like that, in your repository so everybody knows what the license is. And it’s also good to say on the page, if you have a custom page, this is licensed under GPL2, this is licensed under Apache 2, what ever so that people don’t spend a lot of cycles figuring out how to comply with your license. You know, they probably do want to comply. But if you hide it, it will be harder for them to do that.

And, finally, you want to make sure that if you are releasing code that has potential export issues, that you’ve done a review for that. The export laws actually have a, uh, Jeff was talking about this in his talk yesterday, uh, software is actually regulated for export in the United States. That means if you are going to make code available to people outside the US, which basically happens when you put it on a server, right? Uh, there are actually regulations associated with that. Uh, fortunately, there are some exceptions for open source code that usually make it not a problem. But it’s worth thinking for a moment about it. Yeah.

Question: [inaudible]

I don’t think that’s a good approach. I, uh, I am not an export expert. But I would guess that that’s … you are not insulated from liability. I mean, I do know enough to know that when you are responsible for an export violation, that can include encouraging other people to export in violation of the law, so think if you put it on GitHub and it would just be, like, vicarious responsibility instead of direct, and I don’t know if there’s any real difference between those two things.

I have rarely had clients who actually had problems with export issues with open source code that is released open source. They have problems using open source code in binary products and then releasing it because there can be export restrictions that relate to that. But actually releasing source code is usually easy to do. Uh, nevertheless, when you are releasing a project, you may want to be kind to the people who are possibly using your project and say “Hey, this might have export issues if you put it in binary project.” Right? Uh, so, you might want to be sensitive to the issue. But it usually doesn’t end up being a problem.

Question: [inaudible]

It’s … I think it’s entirely cryptography. I don’t know of any other classifications that, uh, that are problematic. But I’m not entirely sure there’s nothing else. Uh, cryptography is what every single question I’ve ever gotten in my whole career about export has been about.

Question: [inaudible]

Cryptography? Why is it an export issue? Uh, well, I’m not sure how to answer that except a historical context. And that is that cryptography has generally, first of all it’s regulated as a munition, uh, so, export law in the United States has Department of Commerce restrictions and Department of Defense restrictions. And this is a Department of Defense restriction. So, it’s actually considered a weapon. Uh, the idea is that having strong cryptography available to those that we are at war with is a problem. And that may seem bizarre except when you, you know, look at the history of even back as far as World War II where cryptography was essential in winning the war. And, or breaking other people’s cryptography was essential in it. So, I think it’s mostly a historical thing but that’s about all I can say. I don’t know if anyone else has any smarter ideas.

Question: [inaudible]

If you are going to release the code open source, there’s actually an exception that usually makes not a problem. Yeah, not in a binary.

Question: [inaudible]

It is definitely an irritating issue. Uh, that’s about all I can say about it.

Question: [inaudible]

There is an exception for open source. I think it’s called, I can’t remember exactly what it was called, it’s not called open source, it’s like software with the sources available. And so it ends up applying to all open source.

OK. So, this is my book. And I was going to give the copy to the best question but I have to give it to the person who provided us with the connection so that we can do the talks and this will be for you. This is a guide, practical guide to open source in business. It discusses a lot of legal concepts but it’s not just for lawyers. It’s intended to be useful to non lawyers. And then for the lawyers, there is actually a computer tutorial in the beginning that explains a lot of the concepts that the lawyers have to know. So, if you are talking to the lawyers in your company and they are like “what the hell of the link?”. Then you could just explain to them here. And it will explain to them so that they won’t think you are talking about hyper links. And, uh, and that’s it. Uh, any further questions before we adjourn?

Question: [inaudible]

The conventional wisdom is that you never review code for patent infringement. This is sort of weird but the patent law says that if you are a willful infringer, you can get up to three times that, the plaintiff can get up to three times the damages. And so, most lawyers in private practice will say “you don’t go out and pro-actively review anything to see if it infringes a patent. But if someone comes to you and says “this infringes a patent”. Then, uh, you do a review and you usually get a lawyer to write an opinion that it doesn’t infringe. Uh, so, going out and doing pro-active review actually can cause a lot of issues, not only potential liability but it’s a little complex but when you get into things like corporate transactions, nobody knows what to do about it. Anyone who went out said “Hey, our stuff infringes a patent”. It just causes all sorts of problems.

I would say there’s one exception that is if you know that you are releasing software and it requires the practice of an existing standard that has a patent  associated with it, I would be transparent about that. So, if your project requires MPEG, you know, don’t hide the ball about that because that’s not going to … It can’t hurt you to say “this requires MPEG” and everybody knows that’s got a patent portfolio associated with it. Or if you have to use Qualcomm’s patent portfolio or Microsoft’s patent portfolio, uh, that’s I view that as a sort of service to your users to make sure that there are not inadvertently getting themselves into trouble. But you never go out and say, “hey, does this infringe a patent, uh, do it, that’s sometimes called the freedom to operate assessment. And, uh, and it’s usually not done. Yeah.

Question: [inaudible]

The only way you can be a rival for patent infringement is if you are actually selling the products that infringes, or if you induce someone else to infringe, and merely providing code is not going to be enough for inducement. Uh, all open source licenses have complete warranty disclaimers in them. And for this at lease it works, you would not be … You might induce if you go to the person, you say “I would really like you to sell this product that has this patented invention in it”. Uh, but, that’s different from just contributing some code.

Thanks everybody so much and I’ll be around if you have questions.

----
[1]: https://www.omm.com/professionals/heather-j-meeker/
[2]: https://allthingsopen.org/
[3]: https://www.youtube.com/t/creative_commons
[4]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DFMQHbx6FfE
