- This is an unofficial transcript from [Advocating For FOSS Inside Companies Redux][1] panel discussion at [FOSDEM 2019][2].

- This transcript is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Belgium Licence][3].

- The time stamps are in HH:MM:SS:FF format where HH, MM, SS, and FF are hour, minute, second, and [CDDA][4] frame, respectively.

- This transcript contains a lot of blanks (denoted by "____") and errors. If you are interested in improving this transcript, please send in your pull requests. Thank you in advance.

# Advocating For FOSS Inside Companies Redux

Tom Marble: This panel is **advocating for FOSS inside companies**. And we had a similar panel on this last year. And it's all about companies that have formal organizations and policies around both inbound open source and outbound open source. And it’s really fascinating to see how … When, maybe, we started this Dev Room perhaps a few years before that, this hadn’t really become a standard practice. And now, companies are really embracing it at both from a organizational, maybe legal defensive point of view, but also from a proactive, outreach point of view, and wanting to connect with and wanting to ccontribute to communities, and want to making impact and wanting to get their names out as a good community citizen.

So, we are really lucky to have a suite of fabulous panelists to talk about this. **I’m going to let each of them introduce themselves for a couple of minutes, and talk about briefly about the issues that they are facing and things that are important to them.** And then, we will be able to dig into these issues in more details. So, I will start off with Charles.

00:01:28:00  
Charles Eckel: OK. Thank you for that intro. My name is Charles Eckel. I work at Cisco. Within Cisco, we have something called DevNet team, our developer network. I’m part of that team. I’m one of the developer advocates in that team. So, my job is really to help developers outside of Cisco understand our products, how they can use API so that they have … how they can build on top of them, integrate with them, what better way to do that by having things open.

Open API is a good thing, open source code is even better. A lot of what I tried to do is make it easier for people to create and open source, and for people to find what I would call sample code really. We do a lot with big open source projects. But another thing is if you just want some sample codes that shows how to use an API, how to do an integration between component A and component B. If you can open source that, make it available for people to use, for me that’s a great way to enable developers. And so, a lot of the things that concern me are kind of around that goal.

Nithya Ruff: Thanks Charles. I’m Nithya Ruff. And I run the open source program office at Comcast. We are based in Philadelphia. And we are a company that’s at the intersection of media and technology. So, we do Internet services, cable TV services, content creation through NBCUniversal DreamWorks etc. So, Comcast traditionally has been a company that acquired proprietary software and purchased products from vendors.

And then around the 2000 time frame, we started consuming more and more open source because open source was so helpful. It helped us create our own solutions, get to market faster, be more innovative, etc. And then we realized that it’s very important and good hygiene to start contributing back to open source whether it’s upstreaming or creating our own original products like Content Distribution Network etc. 

So, my job from an open source program office perspective is to make it dead easy for our programmers and developers in the company, which we have thousands now, to both consume open source software, contribute open source software, collaborate with others, and really to create a culture of open collaboration within and outside the company.

Jeff McAffer: Hey, I’m Jeff McAffer. I work at Microsoft. And I run the open source program there. As you probably notice, Microsoft has been going through quite a bit of change with respect to open source engagement. And it’s only in the last sort of three or four years that we started a formal programs office. It’s been really … very exciting, pretty scary at times. And our biggest challenge I think really is culture. We’ve got a company that’s full of really really great people who’ve been spending decades writing code that wasn’t open source. And in fact, it was often quite opposite. And so, changing the business culture, changing the way we do things, the policies and the processes.

When I started, each person who wanted to use some open source, they had to answer twenty-five skill testing questions. And if they got one of them wrong, they were gone. So, now we’ve got down to some really high automation rates and some of the tooling discussions earlier that went on with right dead-on points. We really want to do open source. We really want to do it well. And so, we’ve been trying to do that across consumption, releasing, contributing back, and supporting projects. And that’s really what my team does, is try to help drive that throughout the company.

Duane O’Brien: My name is Duane O’Brien. I run the open source program at Indeed.com, the job site. And by the time you’ve got to the end of the list here, I started off thinking I have maybe a unique take. But it’s not all that different. What I didn’t hear any of these talk about is companies are really excited to release their own open source projects. A lot of the talk has been focused on getting employees involved and participating in the communities around the software that we consume and that they are interested in. And that’s where I focus a lot of the work that I do there.

So, how do we get developers both reaching for open source first as an instinctive reaction when they want to implement something, but also making sure that they are participating in the communities around the software that we use, not just contributing code back but just being involved with the communities in a broader sense? It’s pretty much what turns up for me.

00:06:15:00  
Tom: I do … I’m going to switch to the other mic in just a second. But I have sort of a hidden agenda. So, it will make sense in a second. I wanted to follow up with that doing because it makes me think about great question. So, that’s why I wanted to grab the mic and I wanted to ask everybody to answer this question.

All of you mentioned to some degree this business of contributing back ________ role that open source is playing in your companies. Let me challenge you. **Let me ask you how do you know when you are successful. What does it mean to be a good citizen? How do you measure it?**

Charles: OK. So, just let you know we hadn’t got a chance to talk about any of these questions beforehand. So, we are going to be thinking off the top of our head here.

For me, I think success comes from having … enabling the developers within my company to do their job and to do it well. And what I mean by that is if you go back maybe ten years ago, it was pretty hard to just release some software, just to put some software in the hands of your potential customer and user base. So, everyone went through the processes that Cisco put in place to put software out. There wasn’t ability to open source something. But the ability to just put, to get any kind of software out, or product, whether it’s open source or closed source, was pretty difficult process, pretty arduous process.

And then, when things like GitHub coming around, it’s so easy now, even accidentally, to share a code. And so, what I’m seeing is more and more people are putting code out there on GitHub whether they are supposed to or not, whether they understand what are licenses or not, whether they really think through what they are doing.

So, a big part of what I’m trying to do is not stop them, but just to try to have a conversation with them, to educate them about "do you realize if you don’t put a license, you are not really doing some one a favor, you are actually hurting them because down there no license to use your stuff?" To a lot of people, that’s just come with surprise. So, helping people do what they want to do, but still do it right way, Right?, to be a good open source kind of contributor and, as Duane was saying, a member of community and not just be throwing a bunch of stuff out there.

So, a lot of what I’m doing is just trying to have that happen. It is difficult to measure. But I think just by looking at the amount of code that’s out there, and talking to our developer community and see, "are they able to find what they need?" That’s how I’m kind of measuring it.

Tom: That’s good. Nithya?

Nithya: Tom, I think it’s going to be an ongoing journey. So, it’s going to be hard to know when we’ve reached it. One of my … well, things on my table is a simple button, like kind of you get at stores. And essentially, we want to empower the developer to make the right choices, as Charlie was saying as well, and not to be overloading them with policies and processes and approval bodies and stuff. We want to build it into the build process. We want to build it into the software development processes. And we want the open source developer inside the company to be a first class citizen. So, one of the things that happens is many of us, our companies, award people moneys and leather jackets etc. for patent filings. And we want open source software development to be just as well recognized in their technical part to being a distinguished engineer, fellow, etc. and also to get the moneys associated with that.

Tom: Great!

Jeff: So, for us, I think we are looking to choose the buzz phrase, delight our customers. And the customers aren’t just people who pay us, they are also the people who are in our communities and our ecosystems. And so, by _____ to your metric point, I'll say upfront we don’t have suite of metrics that _______ goes about certain thing, we are green or we are happy or done. It’s very much a continuous process. But I look at some of the code, some of the projects we put out there, things like VSCode or TypeScript, there are widely used. People are thrilled with them, delighted with them, using them all the time. And those folks walk around really filling, really tall and happy, and really proud of what they are doing. And want that to happen for all our company, obviously, our developers, but also the people who are engaging with our products or our open source projects as well.

So, we look at that is essentially customer satisfaction. How happy are people with the things that we are doing, whether its our own projects, or contributions back, or _____ our actual products.

00:11:28:00  
Duane: So, I think the question … you actually asked us two different questions. And one was what do you measure. And the other one was how do you know when you are done.

If I think about what it is that we measure, I have sort of earmarked goal of getting 50% of our engineers involved regularly in free and open source software, which I think is, as far as I can tell, it seems like a high number, not a lot of companies published like how many of their employees are involved in this kind of work. I don’t want to set the goal at 100% because for some people who have developed disciplines within certain languages or environments or stacks or communities, encouraging them and trying to force them into those communities might not be good for them, or they may just not enjoy it, like it’s not … participating in these communities can’t be for everyone. Not everyone enjoys that the same way.

So, driving participation and trying to get half of our engineers there. That’s really … I’m sort of looking to the measure. But the thing I’m looking for for how I know when I’m done is when the predominant instinct is to see a piece of free and open software that does 95% of what we wanted to do, and having the developers to decide that writing the remaining 5% of that and giving it back to the communities is less work than trying to write 100% of new solution, which is a predominant instinct in a lot of companies. And I think there’s some … there’s a bit of, “oh, I could do this better. It’s going to take two weeks. No problem. I can absolutely … work the 40 or 50 people who’ve been working on this for five or six years. And you get 80% of the way there, but we know how long the other 20% takes. I think which means is that, you know, that’s the first 80% and then second 80% ________. And then the third, and the fourth 80%.

00:13:49:00  
So, **I have a question as a developer. I want to ask you a question about your employees.** And this is inspired by [a podcast that Karen and Bradley did][5] a long time ago on [the Free as in Freedom podcast, FAIF.us][9]. I’d recommend you look it up. And it was about this thing called, uh … yeah, ya, clap … **It’s the contract patch project**. And the idea, if you hadn’t heard of it, was that when you join a company as a new employee, that’s the moment when you have the opportunity, or you have most power in negotiating the terms of your employee contract. And **if you are an open source software developer, one of the discussions that you have an opportunity to have with your employer is, “can I keep copyright in a project that I am actively contributing to or that I will contribute to?”**

Obviously, I would license the work, you know, maybe not obviously, but you could have the employee license their work back to the company as a variation from the default work-for-hire situation. And I think it’s tough for all employees when you are excited about new job to enter into a discussion about terms of an employee contract because frankly it’s scary and on the other side of the table are the lawyers and your manager, potential manager. But it’s … **My question is how do you welcome new employees that might be coming from a free and open source software contribution role. Or, how could you make that more friendly? And, or, have you ever considered the idea of letting employees keep copyright in their projects?**

Duane: So … how do I say this? Implementing change in a corporate context is a slow process, especially when you are starting in an organization that already has thousands of people in it. Right? And so, coming in to an on-boarding process, an employee on-boarding process, that has already been defined by legal entities and culture and everything over time, and trying to upend that out of the gate, it’s a hard thing to do. So, I see it as a long game and sometimes it’s a game of inches like, “Let’s get the open source guidance in front of people as part of the on-boarding. Let’s get a half an hour of the on-boarding process so that we can talk about what policies are and how things work and what sort of the guardrails are for the ways that you might run a fell of policy.” And take things from there. That’s how we’ve been approaching ______.

Jeff: One of the interesting things at Microsoft is we actually have a number of employees who are maintainers of popular software packages you'd use whether it’s Webpack or Moment or Lodash if you are in the Node world. Some of the key maintainers work at Microsoft. But, oddly, their job is not to work on those things. That’s a stuff that they do on their own time. Sometimes it’s a bit tangential to their work and they do it in work time.

So, the point here is that we do have a policy in place. We call it the Moonlighting Policy. And it’s a negotiation and discussion with your management. This applies to everybody, like secretaries, uh, everybody has the same policy. And it’s become the discussion with your management as to, “I want to work on this project. I want to do it in my spare time. It might intersect somewhat with my work or something.” And it becomes a discussion. So, there’s no one in a company, a big company of thousands of people, there’s no one answer that you can have that just says that. But I think we’ve got a … It’s suitably vague, which can be frustrating. But it’s also flexible enough to handle a bunch of different cases.

Nithya: I think it’s becoming increasingly important to allow for people to come in and continue to do work on the project that they had been working on. I am still working on a policy within the company in terms of some of the things Jeff covered and Duane covered, which is “Can I moonlight and contribute to projects that I want? Can I do personal contributions to projects that I believe in, which have nothing to do with my work? Can I bring my copyrights over? Right? And continue to maintain those copyrights?” etc. I know some folks who are … who’ve been in open source for a very long time like GitHub … have kind of created some very progressive policies. But … we came into this just very recently. So, we are still working through how to address this issue and do it fairly.

Charles: Yes, so, let’s see. At Cisco, the default policy is anything you do on company time with the company resources gets the company copyright. For most people, that’s not really a problem. It’s still relatively easy to open source something. It just has that copyright. I haven’t really been involved too much in this. But if that was somehow going to be a problem to you contributing to some other open source process, then … that can change right there. Some flexibility in there. This is just a default _______ Cisco copyright.

So, in terms of coming in and when you first get hired, I think … the thing to do is just have a discussion around ____ these are the things I already … I’m contributing to, I want to contribute to. And putting a Cisco copyright won’t fly within that arena for these reasons. And then make sure that that’s understood coming in. But there’s no reason ________ also can happen after you are _____ and start contributing. So far, I haven’t really seen that be a big problem.

Tom: OK, well, thank you for those answers. And I have ______ more questions. But **I want to give everybody here an opportunity to ask questions, too.** So, I’m going to pass the mic to Karen and let you ask some questions of our panelists.

00:20:54:00  
Attendee 1: I actually … I have, I think, two comments and a question on just ____ last topic. And one is … the first comment is that these are very large companies. So it’s very hard to … I agree it’s very hard to make these changes. I would say that at ______ conference last year, **we were talking about contract patch and we asked the audience of, it was maybe 50 people in the room, how many of them had been able to negotiate an open source change in their agreement and a good half of the audience at least put their hand up that they had been able to do that.** So there are a lot of players that are much smaller who are willing to deal with that to allow ownership of copyright by employees.

As second way to slice the cake on that, and that’s sort of my pushing back on you when you say, “Oh, this is so hard. It’s so hard. This corporate culture is hard to change.” because what really has to … **Because I don’t know that it is necessary that the employee own the copyright, why don’t you as an employer promise that the work will be released under an open source license instead and come about it? Come about at the back door that way?**

Tom: I’m going to give it to Duane.

Duane: I … I actually don’t remember. I almost want to see the video. A camera _______ hard or slow. I think that the both can be true. I think it’s worth mentioning that if you look at the risk profile of Indeed vs. Microsoft, vs. Comcast, vs. Cisco. Right? The kinds of contributions employees are going to be making at Indeed. There aren’t a lot of open source projects centered around connecting employers and job applicants. Right? And so, I struggle to think of an open source contribution that an employee would want to make on their own time that wouldn’t just be fine.

And so, we’re maybe a little cavalier with policy. But I think it's because our risk profile is fairly low compared to shipping set-top boxes or routers with embedded Linux in them, or everything possible that you can try to ship. Right? Good idea or bad. And so, it’s very hard to give a “one answer for everyone” kind of thing. As far as can we commit to the employees that the open source work that they do, or modifications to free and open source software that they do, they can give back to the community and given back to the community. We haven’t made a formal promise to that. But that has just generally been our policy.

00:23:41:00  
Charles: Yeah, and I think my approach has been kind of to that second alternative you were saying. Put the Cisco copyright is just, you know, make it … what I’ve tried to do is make it as easy as possible to release code as open source. And I guess what … I saw a good talk about people just following the path of least resistance. And whatever that path of least resistance is, that’s where people are going to go. So, what I’ve tried to do is insert some good kind of open source principles I guess into that path of least resistance, and sort of fighting the whole copyright thing. And maybe this is some of my own ignorance of legal issues. But it’s like I kind of see I don’t need to fight that one. I’m fine with the Cisco copyright as long as we have a good, well understood, easy to find, and _________ fast and straightforward way to open source something, which we actually do. And that to me seems to be an OK solution.

00:24:43:00  
Attendee 2: I would like to come back to the question, how do you measure that, and go a little bit further. **I’m very curious about, as profit companies, as profit-driven models, first of all, how did you jump in, and first of all, why.** Why? What is the spark? What is the initial motivation? It is business driven? Does it come from the base? **And how do you position yourself today?** Are you still in an exploratory phase with dealing with private code and open code? And if you are even more mature, do you put in place, or do you plan to put in place a kind of governance framework to manage what do we do as private _______. Then what do we do with open code and how do we decide with what _________ you have a full blended business model?

Nithya: So, that was a lot of questions there. Yeah, yeah. I know, for us, the reason we felt that it was important to have an open source program office was we felt that this is the way people develop today, and this is the way company should innovate, and we wanted to be a technology innovator. And so, the way you do it is by establishing, at lease we did, establishing a center of excellence so that developers didn’t have to do the hard work of figuring out which license and how to … what’s the process for open sourcing etc. They could just come to one place. And they could get all that help and get that support they needed to make that happen.

And … I think it’s worked quite well. It is a business differentiator to help us get our products-to-market faster, help us cut cost. It helps us attract talent. And it’s a real battle for talent today. And offering good open source policies and good open source support is a huge differentiator in attracting talent.

Jeff: So, it’s been quite a journey for us and … I work … I drive the open source program on a what we used to call a maturity model. Now we call it an engagement model. We started out a few years ago in denial. And there we progressed to like tolerant and hype with sort of peers of one another. And it’s right now a kind of proficient. Right? And the reason why we institute the programs office is because we recognized that our dabbling with a tolerant level of maturity was very focused through a small, relatively speaking, set of people that all open source in the company went through them. And that’s just not going to scale. Right?

So, we decided that we essentially blow that out, distribute everybody in the company could do open source. But we still needed some level of management and governance over that process. That was what was going to get us to proficient across the company.

And frankly, that’s been … we’ve been at three years now trying to get proficient. And I would say we are getting there, like we are pretty close. It’s still … We’ve got some parts of company that are very amazing like their mastery and they are really doing well on the engagement scale. But the bulk of the company is getting to proficient. And it’s really a lot of things, Nithya you mentioned, motivated us to do this.

But the recognition that, the phrase I like to use that came from somebody that I … in the company that I don’t remember … I won’t quote the name, but it’s basically … It does not enough to aspire to be world class when everybody starts there. Right? We used to write software by just starting with, “OK, let’s … I think we are going to have a database system. So,  you crack open your lap top, new file, write a database system.” That was the Microsoft way of writing code, previously. But that clearly doesn’t work when you can go out and there and get Mongo DB, Postgres, all these other open source databases that everybody else just starts with. And if you make your own, then you don’t get to engage with all that ecosystem that’s around all of those other ones. And the last five percent. Why are we doing? We need five percent different than what they’ve already got. Why are we doing that?

So, the recognition at core business level is that it doesn’t make sense to be building all of our own stuff when we can engage with people in the community, help them, help us, accelerate the industry as a whole, and really deliver the value that our customers want. I don’t care whether we have got some cool new database under the cover, or yet another UI framework. They care that they can write their word documents so you run Excel, or run on Azure, whatever like our products, so we can really drive, or we differentiate, or we provide the value, but build on and with software from others.

00:29:51:00  
Attendee 3: Were you done? Year. So, uh, **I work at a relatively small company. We are about 80-90 people. And we’ve just started an open source working group, perhaps I guess I’m kind of driving. And so I'd love some tips on like what to do, what to drive.** I guess one area is we have a lot of libraries for the Golang that we have, and they are essential to our business, but don’t really contain any business logic to them. But do you … The community is not going to be like, “Oh, wow, that’s  exactly the library we’ve been looking for. Is that something that we still push out? Try to fit that 50% of developers pushing to open source?" And they are like, "Where do we go there?” And if you want to touch on helping to choose licensing, I think we are going to path of least resistance with the MIT, like “OK, that doesn’t matter where to start out there?” But, any input would be great.

Duane: So, I will take the second one first in the legal room and say, “I’m not your lawyer. And I’m not a lawyer.” _______ go counsel when it comes to choosing your license or something for … someone more informed _______ plenty of them in the room here. And I … believe me you can talk for the rest of the remaining two days to them about only that.

As far as you’ve got a bunch of Go libraries that crucial to your business, no critical business logic, and maybe the community doesn’t want them. My philosophy tends to be that if there’s not someone else who wants to be a contributor to the code, it’s likely that you are just polluting the stream with code that nobody wants. Right? There might be other reasons to push code out there. It might be academically interesting. Or something like that. But, really, if nobody else wants it, I would … You could put it out, but then we already have discover-ability problem when it comes to finding software. And so, do that judiciously.

I would say the most important thing is that when someone shows up to your project, it’s very clear to them what this is, what kind of response time they should get from maintenance, what kind of level of maintenance that it’s in. If you want to push libraries out that people might want to use, but don’t intend to maintain them, make sure that person who lands there knows that immediately and how to get hold of if they have questions. It’s what I would say.

Jeff: So, I would go down roughly what you are saying. But I’d also think look internally and see if you can make an opensource-ish inner source culture inside the company, so, you don’t have to actually open source it. You can … being small company, but still you can have people who are working in different parts of the company collaborating on those libraries and working together and sharing ideas.

I differ a little bit on what Duane said in that … yeah, you can pollute the stream. But don’t presume that … You are not special. I’m sorry. You are not. Right? And so, don’t presume that there isn’t somebody else out there who might want to be doing … They might just take your stuff and run with it. And that’s cool. That’s fine because you might find somebody else’s stuff and you will be able to use it. Or they might come and contribute.

So, making ___ clarity, absolutely. That’s one of the biggest. The discover-ability problem we have right now is horrible. And you show up to a project. You don’t know whether is dead, or whether it’s alive, or what’s going on. And that’s a really big problem. So, definitely go down that path. But I would … I’d try to default open. But clarity. Right? You need to be clear about what is it you are doing. And I would go for open first.

Nithya: So, I’m addressing a different one, which is congratulations on starting an open source working group. I think in a small company, that’s the way to go, with lots of volunteers and lots of little time. And as you scale, you’ll probably create more of a dedicated one. And if you are looking for more resources on how to create an open source program office, there’s a group called the [TODO group, todogroup.org][6], which has a lot of case studies and journals and resources on how to start your own program office.

Charles: Yeah, and the other thing. I think you know there’s big open source projects and small open source projects. Most of what I’m dealing with are lots of lots of very small open source projects. Just some sample code around how to use an API or something like that. So then, in having that discussion of ______ open source it or not … I mean, we don’t want to throw a bunch of junk out there that’s not been maintained. But, so, I think the thing to do is make sure that … of course the README has to be good and describe how to use the software. But whether it’s in the readme or a contributing file, we make sure we put something about what are our goals with this. Are we trying to start a community around it? Are we welcoming contributions? Or, at least, engineer who built it just like, “Hey, I want people to see an example. But I don’t really want bug fixes or extensions _____. If this helps you copy, start using it, fine. If it doesn’t … So, just put that disclaimer out there, too, of what are your intentions. And often times, that will influence your license choice, too, I think. Right? What … Depending on what you want is longevity and the … kind of give back sort of model of this to be.

00:35:39:00  
Attendee 4: So, there’s a lot of old, mature code out there down in the guts of software infrastructure that doesn’t have a lot of maintainers. And **I’m wondering if your companies have been thinking about how to contribute to the maintenance of some of that really vital code,** uh, you know, some of the security problems there, the Internet has run into, have been really caused by a just not enough maintenance on that stuff. Can you guys talk a little about that?

Charles: Yeah, I can talk a little bit … I mean, you know there have been some community efforts to try to address that, like with in the Linux Foundation there’s … I forget what it is but … 

Nithya: [Core Infrastructure Initiative][8]

Charles: Yeah, Core Infrastructure, thank you. So, one thing is contributing with money toward that initiative. The other way is also by contributing with developers in some cases. Often times the money, at a large company is easier to do. So, I think you start with that. But if there’s a skill set or personal interest or whatever within the company, that’s also very welcome. So, both ways. And I agree with it. It’s something we need to take care of and address.

Nithya: I mean, Charlie is exactly right. It’s easier to contribute to an effort, a centralized effort like that, which looks at the underfunded or under-resourced but critical components like OpenSSL. I think it was one of them. And then make sure that they are well taken care of.

It’s harder though to justify putting developers, like Charlie was saying, on a project that we may not consume. As businesses, sometime, we tend to be very focused on working with communities that we actually use or somehow help us. And so it’s harder to justify communities which we don’t use, except through, uh, Core Infrastructure Initiative, maybe.

00:37:45:00  
Jeff: Sustainability and survivability, durability of projects is actually a really big problem. And we have been looking at … We do a lot of the same things, Core Infrastructure and that sort of things that have been discussed previously. But we are trying to look at models for how would we actually do this on a more widespread bases. Waiting until there’s Heartbleed and then everybody jumping in and trying to get ________ to fix everything. That’s … That’s OK. But that’s retroactive. We are trying to look more proactive ___ how can we manage to avoid these problems.

But it turns out to be a really hard topic. And if you have any ideas, come down and find me later because I’m really trying to figure this out. Throwing money at the problem is not always workable. It turns out that not everybody just wants money to fix bugs or something. Right? They want to do their thing. And so, it is a challenge. I don’t know how to solve it. I would love your help in figuring out how to solve it because we actually really do want to solve it.

Duane: I was going to say I have ideas and come to my talk. And you said that money is sometimes _______ solution _______ still have ideas. But maybe come to my talk? And at the risk of being priggish, have a talk tomorrow. I’d like you to come to. Or I can talk to you about it afterwards.

The drive for wider contribution that we’ve been taking on has largely been focused … The next place to focus is making sure that we’re contributing into the things that we depend on as a company. The problem is when you do everything, you depend on everything. Right? If we look at the inventory of libraries and software that is deployed across Indeed stack, there’s a lot of everything in there.

My hope is that as the tooling continues to evolve, I can get some insights into where we have contribution activity, where larger dependencies are, and make sure that if there’s a mismatch between those two, we are working to highlight the projects where it make sense for us to be contributing more, and drive programs internally to encourage contribution in those areas.

We haven’t done a lot of that focused on project in need externally. We have done a lot of driving for … If you want to get involved for the first time, if you’ve never made an open source contribution, you want to get started, here are some things we know that we use that are welcoming to new comers, and here are some other projects that are just generally welcoming to new comers to get people on-board _____ process.

00:40:24:00  
Attendee 5: Something that I observe usually about large companies is that they start to engage in free and open source software for their own products, either because they want a community or the ecosystem that they are building to thrive, like more developers use it, or they want actually the code contributions back from the developers. So there are two perfectly fine reasons, but also, like, to the benefit of the company.

What is missing that I observe is we are the people who are not … who don’t have the expertise or simply time to contribute back to the software project, or they are simply not developers but they would benefit if the source code, for example for that’s Internet router in their home is available so that if there is a glitch that is very specific to their use of the software can be fixed by having the source code and fixing it. But unfortunately, the feedback loop that the company gets from the developers is very short. But from these people, the very end users who are not developers, the feedback loop that benefit that the company gets by releasing the source code for the products is quite large, or quite long.

What can be done to somehow … So, **I’m speaking purely from a very end user freedom perspective. What can companies do to shorten this feedback loop so that it is also practical or beneficial for the companies to release source code even if it does not help thrive their platform that they are building or does not add anything to the source code they are developing?** I know it’s a very difficult question.

Duane: Well, we are going to avoid eye contact each other from … (Laughter)

Nithya: Well, it’s a tough one. And we have routers in people’s homes. And if it’s based on open and free software, we do provide the source code for the GPL component so the, you know, the pieces, but not for everything. And … I don’t know enough about the request that we get from customers to make that code available. I don’t know how many of our consumers actually are interested in it, or want to modify it, want to play with it. So I couldn’t answer what the need is and how do we would respond to it. So … Unsatisfactory answer but …

Charles: I’m not sure I understand your question. You are saying there is, say, a product or service that is 80% of it is open source code and 20% of it is not, and how do we get that other 20% to be open source? Or …

Attendee 5: How do ________ the very end user to fix the problem? And by fixing that problem, it will not benefit to your company but it will solve their problem. Nevertheless, like, there is … the installation script or whatever is missing from that thing.

Charles: I guess I have a hard time to ________ that because to me, I mean, customer satisfaction is _______ the number one success of the product. So, if there is a … customer _____ issue and, let’s say, the code is open source and it’s on GitHub, and someone comes and opens an issue saying that they are having this problem. And, you know, fixing it would be in their best interest, I mean, we would want to fix that. So, I guess … that’s why I think I’m not quite understanding your question. We would definitely … Even if it didn’t make the software perform better …

Attendee 5: So, I’m thinking of a developer ________ someone who does not like … I mean, It’s not going to contact you. It’s just fixing their own problem because they don’t have the expertise ________.

Karen: We are going to have to repeat whatever it is that is being said down there because it’s not in the recording.

Jeff: I think we are wrapping it up.

Karen: OK. So, we’ll just move up to next question.

00:44:50:55  
Attendee 6: Actually, **I want to build up on the previous question.** So, to be a little more exact or detailed here, assuming I buy a large Cisco device for a reasonable amount of money, and most of that is open source, and it could actually be driven to a point that you could open source like all of the software parts of the product. So, when you … If you, purely theoretically, would go bankrupt on a next day, and I’d be standing there, and I would have zero support, and I would never ever have the option ever, to get any support for the device ever. If that stuff on GitHub, I can just hire your ex employees, which are now looking for jobs, they can help me maintain that stuff. You could even develop that ______ to a point where the … since the systems live on when a particular business case fails. It can be used to your business cases on. Right? So, there’s a commercial opportunity ________. Maybe that helps.

Charles: Yeah. I agree. And there’s lots of cases where we do have the source code has been open source. If you look at the product or something like VPP and FD.io, you have a lot of Cisco people contributing to it. The entire thing is open sourced. That is used in the combination with other products, as like it’s core and their maybe other management software, something on top of it, that is not open sourced and whole thing is offered as our product.

I can’t say that I’m ever going to make Cisco open source everything. But what I can tell you is higher and higher percentage of code is being open sourced. And that’s in a good direction. And then, people can come on like the GitHub community and submit issues and … So, I think we are moving in a right direction there. But it’s not like everything is going to be open source. I agree that would be fantastic. But we are just moving closer to it.

Karen: The person said that if they are paying money for it, they should have that. Do we have have time for one more question? Or …

Tom: If it’s really quick.

00:47:10:50  
Karen: I’ll ask is … So, I was just building … just following up the one Nithya said before. For all of you … **When were quests for source code come into your companies? Is that sort of under your purview? Do you see that is that part of your work flow?**

Nithya: I think one of the best practices of OpenChain, for example, is that there’s an ombudsman, I think that’s the way to pronounce it, for each company so that people can actually request information of source code etc. And we do have an email address that they can write to. And then, we make sure to contact the right team in the company and make sure that they are able to fulfill request for the source code.

Jeff: Yeah, absolutely. That’s one of the key roles under the model of what we are doing governance and compliance with the licenses. Certainly when people request … We maintain a site [3rdpartysource.microsoft.com][7]. You can go there and find any of our product and try to download … find the copyleft code that’s involved and download it there. If for some reason it’s not there, there’s a link and you can click it and send us an email, and then my team gets started and then we go and figure out why it’s not there. There’s something wrong happened in the build system or whatever.

And then, we also, interestingly, please don’t do this, but, people interesting of this and send us email saying, “Could you please open source Microsoft Paint?” Or, Notepad, which we are doing. Or, Money or … There’s one of the game ones that … anyway. And we try to. We go and actually often just for fun because, not such a fun, for interest sake, we go and ask the team, we try to track down the team and ask them, “what do you think?”

And typically, honestly, it’s No, right? because the actual value in open sourcing it is very … it’s very challenging to open source if it’s all embedded in some big build system or whatever. But, yes, we are trying to make sure that people who want the source code can get it.

Ha, do you really want it? Bradley asked if we could open source Windows. And I asked if you really want it. So. Fair enough.

Tom: Well, we’ve come to the end of our time. And I just want to enthusiastically thank Duane, Jeff, Nithya, and Charles for coming to talk to us.

----
[1]: https://fosdem.org/2019/schedule/event/foss_inside_companies/
[2]: https://fosdem.org/2019/
[3]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/be/deed.en
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compact_Disc_Digital_Audio
[5]: http://faif.us/cast/2016/nov/01/0x5E/
[6]: https://todogroup.org/
[7]: https://3rdpartysource.microsoft.com/
[8]: https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/
[9]: http://faif.us/
